Now that we've assigned roles to users
you can then go ahead and query that data
on the currently authenticated user
by saying something like this; authenticated item,
and then when it is a user, give me the role
and on each of those, we will have all
of our can manage, can manage roles, can manage orders
can see other users, can manage products.
These are all the check boxes that we created
in our fields.ts value.
Now, part of our sort of permissions array
is we're going to want to have access
to all of these permissions on the session.
Remember, the session is a little bit of information
about the currently logged-in user
that we get access to when we are doing
any sort of server site check.
So Keystone has access to the session when it checks
if you're able to update an item or delete an item
or to create an item or to update a specific field;
Keystone will check the session for all of those things.
So what we need to do is go back
to our Keystone.ts and you already see
that we've queried on every single session,
we've queried the ID, the name and the email
of the currently logged in user.
And what that does is every single time there's a request,
Keystone goes and grabs that data from the database
and then it uses it in simple things
like our add-to-cart mutation,
we get access to the session and then we check here.
We check if the user is logged in
and you can use any information on the session you want.
And that's just a little shortcut
so that we don't have to explicitly query
the current user every single time that we want to.
So what we want to do is, including the ID,
the name and the email on every session,
we also want to query the user's roles
because we're going to need these pieces of information
when we go to give a yes or a no
to whether somebody should access something.
So what we do here is you could simply just
write the GraphQL query, which is the role,
and then curly brackets, and this is on one line.
You could put it on multiple lines if you want
and then you would just normally
just type all the fields that you want;
so something like that, can manage cart, can manage users.
You'd be able to type all of that in there.
Now that's a little bit annoying
and this is actually something that comes
up a lot for me in GraphQL,
is that often you find yourself typing the same thing
over and over and over again
because GraphQL doesn't have a way just to say
give me everything, everything you got.
You have to be explicit with each of the fields
and pieces of information that you want from GraphQL.
So, because we've already written
all of these can values here, so what I did
in this file here is we took those permission fields,
we took the keys from them,
so if you have an object
the keys are just gonna be these values.
And what that will do is it will give us
an array of all of them
and then we just exported them
as a variable called permissions list.
It's an array of type of permissions.
Then what we can do is in here, we can import that array
and then just interpolate it into this user right here.
So what we'll do is we'll leave the curly brackets there,
turn this into backticks so that we can use interpolation,
and then we'll use dollar sign
curly bracket to take the permission list.
And we'll call it .join on that with a space in between
and what that will do is it doesn't matter
if it's on a new line or not,
but these queries will run if they're all in the same line,
as long as there's a space in between
each field that you want, see?
It works exactly the same.
Then make sure we imported that permission list.
Let's look for where it is.
There we go,
import permission list from schema, forward slash fields.
Okay.
That looks like it's working really well for us.
Now, what we want to do is to write
our very first access control function
and an access control function is at the very basics
going to say yes or no, can we access something?
So what I want you to do is go into
your Keystone folder for the backend
and create a new file just in the root of the folder.
It's gonna be a sibling to Types and Keystone.ts.
We'll go in here and we'll call it access.ts
And then in here we're going to write
all of our access functions.
So we'll write a very simple one now
and get into a couple more complex ones in coming videos.
So we'll write a little comment here
that says at its simplest,
access control is either a yes or a no value
depending on the user session.
So a really good one for that is
is the user signed in or not?
So what we'll do here is we'll export a function
called is signed in,
and then part of that will give us access to the context
or this function will always have access to the context,
just like we did in our add-to-cart function.
You see, we've got the context here.
So inside of context, we have access to the user's session
and what we can do is we can check
if there is even a user session at all.
So what we'll do here is we'll simply say
return bang bang session.
So what that will do is, is if session is undefined,
putting a double bang in front of it;
so let's say we have undefined here;
putting a double bang in front of it will return false,
meaning that they are not signed in
but if the user session is signed in;
so just like something like email is, Hey;
then that will return true because it is.
So the bang bang is not entirely necessary there,
but what it does is it takes these falsey
and truthy values and converts them,
or coerces them is the proper name,
into true booleons of true or false.
So that's the very basics of a function here.
One more thing we can do here
is type this as list access args
and that should import the list access args
from our Types file, which is right here,
list access args and there we go,
has the item ID in the session.
So now that we have that
I'm gonna show you how we can hook that up
to our access control on each of our lists.
So let's open one of our schema lists
which is product.ts, that's a very simple one,
and then every single list
for every single data type that we have
you can add an access value
to either the entire list or an individual field
and each access will tell us if we can crud it;
create, read, update, delete.
So we'll go here and we'll say access.
I got to put a comma there and get rid of this to do
because we're doing it,
and then it'll say access create.
Is the user allowed to create it?
You can just put false there if you want.
Is the create read, update, and delete.
So what this would do is it would stop anybody ever
from create, read, update, delete any of the actual values.
But what you can do is you can replace these
with functions that will figure out
if it should be true or false.
So let's just replace all of them right now
and we'll replace it with our is signed in function
and what that should do is,
we should auto import it as well, it comes in right here;
import is signed in from access
which is the function we just wrote right here
and that function will return true or false for us.
So now if we restart our backend here
and let's just write a little query called,
here, I've got one right here,
query all products, grab the name and the ID on it.
I'm just gonna refresh the page
so I know when Keystone is ready.
There we go, go ahead and run it.
We get a list of all our products, right?
Not a big deal, but if I were to open this
in a private window where I'm not signed in
and try and run the same query,
we will get an authentication error.
Why?
You do not have access to this resource.
So what we've done there is we've limited
being able to query; in our case, we were reading;
products to only people who are signed in
and now that's not actually what we want to do
because we do want people to be able to
read them all the time.
We only want them to create them if they're signed in,
we only want them to update them when they own them,
and we only want people to delete them
when they own them or you are an admin.
So that's a little bit more complicated
and we'll get into that in the next video.